[MUSIC]
>> Kent C Dodds: What
we're going to do now,
we're first going to create
what's called a validate script.
We have two things that
we want to have run.
We want to run both test and linting.
And that like validates that
our project is good to go.
This is something that's really
good to have just in general for
like receiving contributions.
Is like you say hey, if I go clone
this repo, I make a fork of it,
then clone your fork,
then install the dependencies.
And then run NPM run validate,
and that will run like tests,
and the linting, and whatever.
We're gonna add the build to it
eventually, that way it's really easy for
people to know before
they start contributing.
Whether they have their
environment set up properly.
It's the same concept behind that
setup script that I gave to you.
Yeah let's go ahead and do that.
Kind of the naive approach to this
would be just to add in your package
JSON in your scripts,
a spelled correctly, validate script.
That runs npm run lint and npm run test.
And that would work great.
npm run validate, so it runs linting
first, then it runs a test and
it's pretty quick.
But I don't know, I like running
things in parallel when I can and
these two things are totally
separate from each other.
One doesn't need to run after the other,
and
so we're going to install
a tool called npm-run-all.
Which you normally just
install in the CLI,
but it should already be installed for
you.
And that will be npm-run-all,
right here in your package.json.
And the version that we have
installed here is 2.3.0,
which appears to be the latest.
>> Kent C Dodds: So
with that installed, npm-run-all,
then you can use that in
your validate script.
And its API is basically just give
me a list of scripts that you want
to run after the parallel flag.
So we want npm run all to run in parallel
the scripts called lint and test.
Associated with those two things.
And then when you run those things it
will run a little bit faster because it's
running them both at the same time.
>> Kent C Dodds: Any questions,
anybody get there?
>> Kent C Dodds: All right, sweet.
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay, so then,
now we want this to be like default thing
that runs before we
commit anything at all.
Because I don't wanna like add some code,
and
then I'm committing something
that breaks the test for example.
I should say, something that you
might be thinking like, well.
What if I need to for some reason?
Well there's a pretty easy escape hatch.
Like if you say git commit and
whoop, spelling this correctly.
Foo-bar or whatever you want, and
then you simply add --no-verify and
that will skip all Git hooks.
That's actually something really good to
know when you start adding Git hooks and
stuff, start using those.
We're going to add ghooks to add
some shareable Git hooks, or
installable Git hooks.
And then we'll configure ghooks to
specify what hooks we want to have run,
specifically the validate script.
I'll say ghooks, and the latest version,
I think, is what we have, 3.2.
>> Kent C Dodds: And again,
you already have this installed.
And then you don't
actually use like a CLI or
anything for
G hooks you just configure it.
And then actually,
we will need to install it because it
will do some stuff when it's installed.
But first we'll just configure it,
it's config in your package JSON.
Config is an object so again this is kind
of what I was talking about earlier.
This is where the blast away from
npm to configure your stuff.
And in here it's ghooks and
pre-commit is the hook that we care about.
So before commit happens we
want to run something and
the thing that we want to
run is npm run validate.
>> Kent C Dodds: Now to actually
get those git hooks installed you
do actually need to run npm
install --save-dev ghooks.
>> Kent C Dodds: And that,
you'll notice maybe,
your output should probably have this,
it says node ./bin/module-install.
And that is what is responsible for
installing stuff into
your git hooks directory.
If you pop open your tag .git/hooks,
you'll now see a bunch of hooks in here.
If you look at commit-msg or
post-checkout,
you'll see generated by ghooks.
Do not edit this file.
And this is responsible for looking up in
your package JSON what scripts to run and
running those scripts.
>> Kent C Dodds: So that is that, here,
I'll go ahead and break a test, or
I'll add some stuff that's not covered,
foobar.
>> Kent C Dodds: Actually,
we'll add a linting error too.
If I try to commit this, foobar,
then it runs those scripts first and it
fails, and I still have stuff to commit.
The commit failed and now I am
increasing the quality of the commits
going into my code base which is great.
And I can look up and see it's because
foobar is defined but never used.
I would get the same experience if my
test failed, that's cool, fun stuff.
Any questions about all of
that stuff I just said?
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay,
I'll wait a second for chat.
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay.
>> Kent C Dodds: Great,
now we're gonna move onto trans-piling.
>> Kent C Dodds: This one's
a little bit more involved,
it takes quite a bit of configuration and
stuff.
Who here is familiar with- actually,
sorry.
Before we do that,
let's all make sure we get on the same
page with the most recent changes.
>> Kent C Dodds: It is
called FEM/06.0-validate.
>> Kent C Dodds: We're gonna get rid
of that npm debug log really quick.
What is that?
Script failed